p8105_hw6_ax2173.md, before:

p8015_hw6_ax2173
================

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ─────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse 1.3.2 ──
    ## ✔ ggplot2 3.3.6      ✔ purrr   0.3.5 
    ## ✔ tibble  3.1.8      ✔ dplyr   1.0.10
    ## ✔ tidyr   1.2.1      ✔ stringr 1.4.1 
    ## ✔ readr   2.1.2      ✔ forcats 0.5.2 
    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## ✖ dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## ✖ dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

``` r
library(modelr)
library(viridis)
```

    ## Loading required package: viridisLite

``` r
library(mgcv)
```

    ## Loading required package: nlme
    ## 
    ## Attaching package: 'nlme'
    ## 
    ## The following object is masked from 'package:dplyr':
    ## 
    ##     collapse
    ## 
    ## This is mgcv 1.8-40. For overview type 'help("mgcv-package")'.

``` r
knitr::opts_chunk$set(
  fig.width = 6,
  fig.asp = .6,
  out.width = '90%'
)

theme_set(theme_classic() + theme(legend.position = 'bottom'))

options(
  ggplot2.continous.colour = 'viridis_d',
  ggplot2.continous.fill = 'viridis_d'
)

scalr_colour_discrete = scale_color_viridis_d
scale_fill_discrete = scale_fill_viridis_d

set.seed(1)
```

## Problem 1

## Problem 2

Import the data, and do some initial data manipulation, described as
following: \* Create a city_state variable \* create a binary variable
indicating whether the homicide is solved. (1 represents solved, 0
represents unsolved) \* Omit several cities \* Limit analysis those for
whom victim_race is white or black \* change the type of victim_age to
numeric

``` r
homicide_df = 
  read_csv("./data/homicide-data.csv") %>% 
  mutate(
    city_state = str_c(city, ', ',state),
    whether_solve = ifelse(str_detect(disposition, 'Close'), 1, 0)
  ) %>% 
  filter(
    !city_state %in% c('Dallas, TX', 'Phoenix, AZ','Kansas City, MO','Tulsa, AL'),
    victim_race %in% c('White','Black')
    ) %>% 
  mutate(victim_age = as.numeric(victim_age))
```

    ## Rows: 52179 Columns: 12
    ## ── Column specification ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
    ## Delimiter: ","
    ## chr (9): uid, victim_last, victim_first, victim_race, victim_age, victim_sex...
    ## dbl (3): reported_date, lat, lon
    ## 
    ## ℹ Use `spec()` to retrieve the full column specification for this data.
    ## ℹ Specify the column types or set `show_col_types = FALSE` to quiet this message.

    ## Warning in mask$eval_all_mutate(quo): NAs introduced by coercion

## Problem 3

Commit message:

For the city of Baltimore, MD, use the glm function to fit a logistic regression with resolved vs unresolved as the outcome and victim age, sex and race as predictors. Save the output of glm as an R object; apply the broom::tidy to this object;

p8105_hw6_ax2173.md, after:

p8015_hw6_ax2173
================

``` r
library(tidyverse)
```

    ## ── Attaching packages ─────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse 1.3.2 ──
    ## ✔ ggplot2 3.3.6      ✔ purrr   0.3.5 
    ## ✔ tibble  3.1.8      ✔ dplyr   1.0.10
    ## ✔ tidyr   1.2.1      ✔ stringr 1.4.1 
    ## ✔ readr   2.1.2      ✔ forcats 0.5.2 
    ## ── Conflicts ────────────────────────────────────────── tidyverse_conflicts() ──
    ## ✖ dplyr::filter() masks stats::filter()
    ## ✖ dplyr::lag()    masks stats::lag()

``` r
library(modelr)
library(viridis)
```

    ## Loading required package: viridisLite

``` r
library(mgcv)
```

    ## Loading required package: nlme
    ## 
    ## Attaching package: 'nlme'
    ## 
    ## The following object is masked from 'package:dplyr':
    ## 
    ##     collapse
    ## 
    ## This is mgcv 1.8-40. For overview type 'help("mgcv-package")'.

``` r
knitr::opts_chunk$set(
  fig.width = 6,
  fig.asp = .6,
  out.width = '90%'
)

theme_set(theme_classic() + theme(legend.position = 'bottom'))

options(
  ggplot2.continous.colour = 'viridis_d',
  ggplot2.continous.fill = 'viridis_d'
)

scalr_colour_discrete = scale_color_viridis_d
scale_fill_discrete = scale_fill_viridis_d

set.seed(1)
```

## Problem 1

## Problem 2

Import the data, and do some initial data manipulations, described as
following:

-   Create a city_state variable
-   Create a binary variable indicating whether the homicide is solved.
    (1 represents solved, 0 represents unsolved)
-   Omit several cities
-   Limit analysis those for whom victim_race is white or black
-   Change the type of victim_age to numeric

``` r
homicide_df = 
  read_csv("./data/homicide-data.csv") %>% 
  janitor::clean_names() %>% 
  mutate(
    city_state = str_c(city, ', ',state),
    whether_solve = ifelse(str_detect(disposition, 'Close'), 1, 0)
  ) %>% 
  select(-city, -state, -disposition) %>% 
  filter(
    !city_state %in% c('Dallas, TX', 'Phoenix, AZ','Kansas City, MO','Tulsa, AL'),
    victim_race %in% c('White','Black')
    ) %>% 
  filter(victim_age != 'Unknown') %>% 
  mutate(victim_age = as.numeric(victim_age))
```

    ## Rows: 52179 Columns: 12
    ## ── Column specification ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
    ## Delimiter: ","
    ## chr (9): uid, victim_last, victim_first, victim_race, victim_age, victim_sex...
    ## dbl (3): reported_date, lat, lon
    ## 
    ## ℹ Use `spec()` to retrieve the full column specification for this data.
    ## ℹ Specify the column types or set `show_col_types = FALSE` to quiet this message.

For the city of Baltimore, MD, use the glm function to fit a logistic
regression with resolved vs unresolved as the outcome and victim age,
sex and race as predictors. Save the output of glm as an R object; apply
the broom::tidy to this object;

``` r
homicide_Bal_df = 
  homicide_df %>% 
  filter(city_state == 'Baltimore, MD') 

Bal_glm = 
  glm(whether_solve ~ victim_age + victim_sex + victim_race, family = binomial(link = logit), data = homicide_Bal_df) %>% 
  broom::tidy()
```

and obtain the estimate and confidence interval of the adjusted odds
ratio for solving homicides comparing male victims to female victims
keeping all other variables fixed.

## Problem 3
